# Ansible_playbook
playbooks for automate tasks

Key Features of Ansible:
1> **Configuration Management**: installing packages, starting services, creating users, setting permissions, and more.Ansible’s configuration management is idempotent, which means you can run the same playbook multiple times and it will only make changes if they’re needed. 
2> **Task Automation**: Ansible can automate tasks such as software installation, patching, network configuration and more. Ansible Playbooks, written in a human-readable YAML format, describe tasks to be performed in a particular sequence. And all of these tasks can be executed in parallel.
3> **Application Deployment**: Automate your application deployment across all of your Linux servers. You can write a playbook that describes how to set up the environment for your application, how to build your application, and how to deploy your application to your Linux servers. Ansible can also manage complex multi-tier deployments, and it can orchestrate zero-downtime rolling updates.
4> **Orchestration**: Orchestration involves managing and coordinating the entire system, including the application and the infrastructure. Ansible can manage complex multi-tier deployments and dictate the order in which different applications or services are stood up on different servers. This is essential for applications that have dependencies on other services.
5> **Cloud Provisioning**: Ansible also has specific modules for interacting with various cloud providers, allowing you to create and manage resources in those clouds (similar to utilizing Terraform for IaC). You can write playbooks that describe the resources you want in your cloud environment, and Ansible will create those resources for you. This includes creating virtual machines, networking, managing storage and more.
6>**Security and Compliance**: Ansible can be used to automate security compliance in two ways. First, you can write playbooks that set your systems to a secure state. This can include tasks such as setting file permissions, managing firewalls, and installing security updates. Second, you can use Ansible to check the current state of your systems against your security policies. Ansible can report on any systems that are out of compliance, and it can even automatically correct any violations it finds.
